[docs]:add workflows doc (#7309)
ToolJet/ToolJet: docs/docs/workflows/nodes.md

---
id: nodes
title: Types of Nodes
---

Nodes are a graphical representation of each process in a workflow. Each node in the workflow passes over the result to the next node. Every new instance of a workflow will have two nodes - **Start Trigger** and **Result**. The **Start Trigger** node triggers the workflow to run. Once the workflow execution is completed, the resulting data is stored in the **Result** node.

Apart from the default **Start Trigger** and **Result** nodes, there are an array of nodes that you can add to the canvas. They can be broadly divided into four types - **JavaScript**, **If condition**, **Data sources** and **REST API**. Let's take a closer look at each node.

## JavaScript

The **JavaScript** node lets you write custom JavaScript code. You can write the code to transform data, create alert messages and use other capabilities of JavaScript. The code you enter in each JavaScript node needs a **return** statement to ensure that the result is sent to the next node. 

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
    <img style={{padding: '10px'}} className="screenshot-full" src="/img/workflows/nodes/js-node.png" alt="JavaScript Node" />
</div>

## If condition

> The **If condition** node has one incoming flow and two outgoing flows. It executes one of the outgoing flows based on the provided logical expression. If the expression evaluates to **true**, the outgoing flow connected to the green circle gets executed. In case it is **false**, the flow connected to the red circle will get executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It triggers one of the outgoing flows depending on the given logical expression. If the expression is true, it activates the flow connected to the green circle. Conversely, if it's false, the flow linked to the red circle will be activated.
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
    <img style={{padding: '10px'}} className="screenshot-full" src="/img/workflows/nodes/if-condition-node.png" alt="If Condition Node" />
</div>
<br/>
<div style={{display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'space-between', flexDirection: window.innerWidth <= 768 ? 'column' : 'row', alignItems:'center'}}>
  <div style={{flex: 1, padding: '0', alignment:'center'}}>
    <p style={{textAlign: 'left'}}>
        - If you click on the <b>If condition</b> node, a dialog box will appear on the right that accepts a logical expression. 
        <br/>    
        <br/>    
        - The <b>If condition</b> node can be handy when you want to run flows based on the data received or create alert messages based on success or failure of certain nodes.
    </p>
  </div>
  <div style={{flex: 1, padding: '10px'}}>
    <img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/workflows/nodes/if-condition-config.png" alt="If condition configuration"  />
  </div>
</div>
<br/>

## Data Sources 

> All the data sources that you have configured in ToolJet will be available in the workflow. You can use them to run complex queries on your database tables, connect with APIs, send emails and messages, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the flow builder of ToolJet, all the data sources you've set up will appear as nodes. These nodes can be utilised to perform intricate queries on your data sources, establish connections with APIs, send emails and messages, and more.
```
